README.md, before:

# Nora's Workday

**A presentation of the game on YouTube**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sGpmDqRiE00

Nora's Workday is a small example game that demonstrates the possibilities of WatcomGL. WatcomGL is an OpenGL framework for FreeDOS and uses **WatcomC / OpenWatcom / DJGPP**.

It's not yet memory-optimized and uses very large data files. Therefore, it doesn't run in DOSBOX. DOSBOX-X with memsize=256 runs the nora1_dj.exe but much much too slow. On a real FreeDOS machine, you can access approximately **256 MB** instead of just 64MB of memory using WatcomC (PMode/W). I **will** implement a memory test at startup so the game stops if there isn't enough memory available. DOSBOX and DOSBOX-X are far too slow for this; it's better to use VirtualBox or a real computer.

In this quickly programmed game, you have to change the color of bouncing balls moving through Nora's world.

You play as the protagonist, Nora, and can use her "change" portals to alter her clothing and recolor the bouncing and moving balls.

By changing the colors of the balls, you earn money. At the end of the workday, you can see how much money you have collected.

You can end the game prematurely by pressing the **END** ​​or **ESC** key. Once the certificate appears, you can permanently exit the game by pressing the **SPACEBAR** key. This game is just a small hack and contains very little code.

It has a fixed 16:9 aspect ratio (e.g., 1280x720). Therefore, it will appear distorted on 4:3 monitors (e.g., 640x480).

You can find **WatcomGL** (an OpenGL for DJGPP/WatcomC/OpenWatcom) here: https://github.com/kosmonautdnb/WatcomGL  
And some useful libraries for DJGPP/(actually all are done for)WatcomC 11.0/OpenWatcom here: https://github.com/kosmonautdnb/WatcomLibs  

There are two pre-compiled .exe files for FreeDOS:

**"NORA1_DJ.EXE"** starts the game using DJGPP. The resolution is 640x480. The significantly higher performance demonstrates the strength of DJGPP as a compiler.

**"NORA1_OW.EXE"** starts the game with OpenWatcom 2.0. The resolution is 320x200. This file also runs very efficiently.

I recommend using WatcomC++ 11.0 for development, as it compiles quickly, and DJGPP for the finished game, as it offers good performance.

**Compilation:**

You will need a **RAM disk on R:**. Installation instructions can be found in AUTOEXEC.BAT in the _BUILD/ folder. The RAMDISK file (.exe) is also located in the _BUILD/ folder. I choose a Ramdisk because USB Sticks wear out if used for a longer time (write cycles).

**Run !CLEAN.BAT** to clean the R:/ directory.


**Run !MAKE.BAT** to compile the entire project and create the file **R:/MAIN.EXE** with WatcomC 11.0 or another WatcomC/OpenWatcom version. Alternatively, you can select DJGPP in the batch file by setting DJGPPCOMPILE to 1.

**Run !RUN.BAT** to launch the game from **R:/MAIN.EXE**.

The game will access the **DATA/** folder, which contains all the game data.

**WatcomC with 256 MB of memory (with PMODE/W) instead of the 32 MB (with Dos4gw)**  
PMODE/W config.sys:  
DEVICE=C:_DOS_\BIN\HIMEMX.exe  
DEVICE=C:_DOS_\BIN\JEMM386.exe /SB /MAX=262144  
/MAX=262144 means 256MB may be available.

Commit message:

Update README with batch file instructions
Added instructions for building files in non FreeDOS environments.

README.md, after:

# Nora's Workday

**A presentation of the game on YouTube**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sGpmDqRiE00

Nora's Workday is a small example game that demonstrates the possibilities of WatcomGL. WatcomGL is an OpenGL framework for FreeDOS and uses **WatcomC / OpenWatcom / DJGPP**.

It's not yet memory-optimized and uses very large data files. Therefore, it doesn't run in DOSBOX. DOSBOX-X with memsize=256 runs the nora1_dj.exe but much much too slow. On a real FreeDOS machine, you can access approximately **256 MB** instead of just 64MB of memory using WatcomC (PMode/W). I **will** implement a memory test at startup so the game stops if there isn't enough memory available. DOSBOX and DOSBOX-X are far too slow for this; it's better to use VirtualBox or a real computer.

In this quickly programmed game, you have to change the color of bouncing balls moving through Nora's world.

You play as the protagonist, Nora, and can use her "change" portals to alter her clothing and recolor the bouncing and moving balls.

By changing the colors of the balls, you earn money. At the end of the workday, you can see how much money you have collected.

You can end the game prematurely by pressing the **END** ​​or **ESC** key. Once the certificate appears, you can permanently exit the game by pressing the **SPACEBAR** key. This game is just a small hack and contains very little code.

It has a fixed 16:9 aspect ratio (e.g., 1280x720). Therefore, it will appear distorted on 4:3 monitors (e.g., 640x480).

You can find **WatcomGL** (an OpenGL for DJGPP/WatcomC/OpenWatcom) here: https://github.com/kosmonautdnb/WatcomGL  
And some useful libraries for DJGPP/(actually all are done for)WatcomC 11.0/OpenWatcom here: https://github.com/kosmonautdnb/WatcomLibs  

There are two pre-compiled .exe files for FreeDOS:

**"NORA1_DJ.EXE"** starts the game using DJGPP. The resolution is 640x480. The significantly higher performance demonstrates the strength of DJGPP as a compiler.

**"NORA1_OW.EXE"** starts the game with OpenWatcom 2.0. The resolution is 320x200. This file also runs very efficiently.

I recommend using WatcomC++ 11.0 for development, as it compiles quickly, and DJGPP for the finished game, as it offers good performance.

**Compilation:**

You will need a **RAM disk on R:**. Installation instructions can be found in AUTOEXEC.BAT in the _BUILD/ folder. The RAMDISK file (.exe) is also located in the _BUILD/ folder. I choose a Ramdisk because USB Sticks wear out if used for a longer time (write cycles).

**Run !CLEAN.BAT** to clean the R:/ directory.


**Run !MAKE.BAT** to compile the entire project and create the file **R:/MAIN.EXE** with WatcomC 11.0 or another WatcomC/OpenWatcom version. Alternatively, you can select DJGPP in the batch file by setting DJGPPCOMPILE to 1.

**Run !RUN.BAT** to launch the game from **R:/MAIN.EXE**.

The game will access the **DATA/** folder, which contains all the game data.

You could **Run !BATCH.BAT** to build all the files (some settings are in there) and start the game if you are in a non FreeDOS environment.  

**WatcomC with 256 MB of memory (with PMODE/W) instead of the 32 MB (with Dos4gw)**  
PMODE/W config.sys:  
DEVICE=C:_DOS_\BIN\HIMEMX.exe  
DEVICE=C:_DOS_\BIN\JEMM386.exe /SB /MAX=262144  
/MAX=262144 means 256MB may be available.
